constraints
not null
check
unique
default
primary key 

foriegn key
FOREIGN KEY
Purpose: Ensures referential integrity by linking two tables.
Note: The referenced table should have a PRIMARY KEY.
Foreign Key column can have duplicates and NULL values.
Parent table: The table with a PRIMARY KEY. and foreign key 
Child table: The table referencing the PRIMARY KEY.

child table
create table dept (deptid int primary key ,depname varchar(20));
insert into dept (depid,depname) values (101,'trainers') ,
  (102,'sales'),(103,'placements');

emp table
create table emp (id int primary key, name varchar(20),depid int, 
         foreign key(depid) references dept(depid));
insert into emp values (1,'john',101);
insert into emp values (10,'john',107);--throws error
insert into emp values (10,'john',102);---inserted
insert into dept values (107,'bda');--modified the child table
insert into emp values (9,'john',107);--inserted 

drop table dept;---we cannot delete


drop table emp;

drop table dept;




Joins in MySQL
Joins in MySQL are used to retrieve data from multiple tables
 based on a related column. 
 
 The different types of joins :
 inner join
 right join
 left join
 full outer join
 cross join
 self join



 1. INNER JOIN
The INNER JOIN keyword selects records that have matching values in both tables.
If there is no match, the rows are excluded from the result set.
This is the most commonly used join in SQL.
It is useful when we only need records that have corresponding entries in both tables.


select * from emp e inner join dept d on e.deptno=d.deptno;

get the names and location
select e.ename , d.loc from emp e inner join dept d on e.deptno=d.deptno;


1) Display student_id who registered under anitha
select * from trainers t inner join enrollments e on
    t.trainer_id=e.trainer_id  where t.trainer_name='anita';



queries
Queries on joins
1) Display student_id who registered under anitha
2) Display student_id who registered for python
3) Display who was teaching the course having highest fees
4) Display sid,cid,cname,fees of each std
5) Display studentid,total fees paid by each student
6) Display coursename,total fees paid for each course
7) Display sid,trianername, subject,fee for all students
Advanced
1) find the student names who have taken python
2)find the count of no of students in each course
3)find the students names who are training under anitha
4)find the trainers who has maximum enrolled students
5)find the total fees of every trainer based on total student under his course
6) Find courses with more than 1 student
7) Find students who enrolled in more than one course
8) Find trainers who collected fees more than 20,000
9) Find students who paid more than 20,000
10) Find courses whose total collection is more than 30,000









